# SIMPLE STARS

This should become an simple turn based space strategy game, where players will conquer star systems, fight with each other and maybe even make alliances


## Winning the game

First to reach the target score will win the game.

## What to do during the game

Each player starts with one star system and one a small fleet of ships. Each turn they can give 5 commands. These commands can be given to systems or ships and then there are some more general commands. Maybe.

* System commands
  * Build units (Up to the maximum cap of the industrial value of the system)
  * Improve industry (increate the industry value of the planet by 1)
  * Improve economy (increase the money generated by the planet by 1)
  * Improve defences (increase the defence value of the planet by 1)
  * Improve welfare (increase the welfare value of the planet by 1)
* Fleet commands
 * Move (unless already on route)
 * Invade / Colonize
 * Defend (Gives a bonus to the fleet for defending the system it is placed)
* General
 * Claim objective

Player can only give one command to unit per turn, but multiple commands can be given to a single system, up to their command limit.


## Systems

Each system has 4 different charasteristics that can be improved: Industry, Economy, Defence and Welfare. They can also have some spacialities in the future, but for the MVP they are all identical each home system starts with 3 on each value and each new planet has 0.

### Industry

Each ship build requires certain level of industry points. More industry points the systems has, more and bigger ships it can build.

### Economy

Each improvment and ship will require money to build and that money is produced by the economy value in the sytem

### Defences

When under attack the system have defences setup. The more defences it has, then easier it is to actually defend it.

### Welfare

Increasing welfare increases the command cap of the system and the total command count player can give each turn is based on the total welfare of all the systems player has

## Units and fleets

Player produces units and units that move together or are located on a single system are considered a fleet.

### Non Combat stats

* Name - The name of this unique ship
* Type - The ship class type (this affects some strategies and weapon targets)
* Cost - How many credits does it cost to build this this
* Industry - The minimum industry needed to build this ship
* Troops - How many troops does this ship carry for Invasion/Colonization
* Keywords - What special abilities or rules apply to this ship

### Combat stats

* Hull - The maximum damage this ship can take, ranges from 20 to 1000+
* Armor - The amount of damage that is reduced from each hit that reaches the hull up to the minimum of 1.
* Shields - Temporary shields that regenerate after each turn (not to full mind you). Armor reduction does not matter on shields
* Agility - How fast the ship is. This affects to the difficulty of hitting it.
* Weapons - Ship can have multiple weapons, each with different stats
  * Damage - How much damage does this weapon do in each hit, can be a value or a range
  * Accuracy - How easy it is to hit with this weapon, can be a value or a range
  * Cooldown - How many rounds it takes for the weapon to reload for shooting (1 to shoot everyturn)
  * Type - Weapon type
  * Special - Weapon Special Keys


## Combat



Combat rounds are executed until only one side remains or the other fleet decides to escape (to the nearest friendly system).

Pre-Combat:

* System Defences fire to the invading forces

Combat Round

* Each faction chooses strategy
* For each unit in combat, once per weapon in the ship
  * Choose a target
  * Shoot at the target if it exists
  * Assign damage to target
  * If the ship makes a hit, gain 1 point of EXP
* Damage phase
  * Destroy ships with more damage than hull
  * Recharge shields
* Check for morale for each faction (attacker first)
  * Retreat if fails

Post-Combat

* Recharge shields to full
* Surviving ships gain 1 EXP for each combat round
* Some emergency repairs

# Tech

List of ideas for tech

* Ship tech
  * Movement speed
  * Small Increase in base accuracy
  * Larger increase in WEAPONTYPE based accuracy
  * Increase in shield regeneration
  * Increase in armor
  * More hull
  * Shields that allows us to take more hits.
  * Cost reduction
  * Indestry requirement reduction
  *
* Economy
  * More money per economy point
* Industry
  * Reduce the cost of industry
  * Automatic industry on new planets
* Defense
  * Better rolls for defense
  * Cheaper defense (first 2 are free)
* Welfare
  * Less tech reduction
  * Faster Actions 1 per 8
  * Cheaper welfare
* Other more special tech
  * Shoot one round before other player (without this tech)
  * Automatic increase in economy for every three turns
  * Slow the speed of enemy ships close to your system
  * Automatic research point per turn
  * More Research levels adjustment levels
  * Less destruction on invasion


# Objectives

For now: Control 5 ring worlds

# Diplomacy

Diplomacy provides a simple messaging/chat tool between factions. Those messages will transfer immediately
Actual trades happen on turn processing and require a command
